---
ID: 63
post_title: 2016-2017
author: mesch
post_excerpt: ""
layout: page
permalink: >
  http://www.umw.edu/residencelife/before-you-get-to-campus/services-agreement/2016-2017/
published: true
post_date: 2016-01-29 18:24:53
---
<h2>2016-2017 University of Mary Washington Housing and Dining Services Agreement</h2>
<h3>Agreement to Deal Electronically</h3>
By choosing to electronically sign the University of Mary Washington (UMW) Housing and Dining Services Agreement, from here on referenced as UMW Agreement, below, you agree to the following terms and conditions:
<ul>
 	<li>Your access to the UMW Agreement is conducted electronically and you agree that the Office of Residence Life and Commuter Student Services may communicate with you electronically for all aspects of the terms of the UMW Agreement, including sending you electronic notices.</li>
 	<li>All electronic communications will be sent to your official UMW email account. At the end of this document you will be asked to provide an electronic signature. By doing so you will agree to the Terms and Conditions of the 2016-2017 UMW Agreement. Your electronic signature is legally binding.</li>
 	<li>You agree to contact the Office of Residence Life and Commuter Student Services if you need information about your UMW Agreement, and you recognize that electronic communication with that office may be interrupted by circumstances beyond that office’s control.</li>
 	<li>You agree to be responsible for keeping all records relating to the UMW Agreement and for printing or making an electronic copy of these Terms and Conditions. Except as prohibited by law, you waive any requirement of a different method of communication in connection with your access to and communications about the UMW Agreement.</li>
</ul>
UMW Agreement Terms and Conditions for Housing and Dining are combined in this document as a convenience for the residential student.
<h3>2016-2017 UMW Housing and Dining Services Agreement</h3>
TERMS AND CONDITIONS
<ol>
 	<li><strong>Period of Agreement</strong>: This UMW Agreement, unless otherwise stated, is for the full academic year consisting of the fall and spring semesters of the same academic year. If student defers admission from the fall semester UMW Agreement applies for spring semester only. If student is returning to the university in the spring semester after an absence UMW Agreement applies for spring semester only. See Section 5 and 6 for exceptions. Thus, the student agrees that, he/she will live in the university residence halls and take meals in university dining facilities for the entire period of the UMW Agreement. Dining services under this UMW Agreement will be provided as indicated below. The procedures for students entering the university with a new UMW Agreement for the spring semester beginning in January is the same as outlined for the fall semester. <strong>Important Exception:</strong> For incoming first year students this UMW Agreement is for two full academic years. If student begins first year in January this UMW Agreement is for three semesters. During the spring semester of their first year students must submit an online UMW Agreement for the upcoming year so as to complete a roommate matching profile and select a meal plan option.</li>
 	<li><strong>Eligibility</strong>: Students must be full-time undergraduate degree-seeking UMW students unless otherwise stated. Only current students are able to participate in the returning student housing selection process. Bachelor of Liberal Sciences(BLS) students are ineligible for campus housing unless the Director of Residence Life and Commuter Student Services or his/her designee has given special permission. In the event that a BLS student feels she/he has extenuating circumstances, she/he must submit a letter of request to the Director of Residence Life and Commuter Student Services for consideration. Students who have part-time status for documented medical reasons or who have completed a “Request for Reduced Course Load” from the Office of Academic Services and have received approval from the Dean of Student Life or his/her designee, may be allowed to retain eligibility for residential housing. Non-students are not permitted to live in the residence halls. <strong>Important Information: </strong>A course load reduction below 12 credits does not automatically cancel the UMW Agreement.</li>
 	<li><strong>Consideration of the UMW Agreement</strong>: Issued UMW Agreements are binding on the university only after a student has been admitted to the university by the director of admissions.</li>
 	<li><strong>Period of Occupancy</strong>: This UMW Agreement is for two terms of 103 days each during the fall and spring semesters. The student may occupy an assigned room at the time specified by the university each semester. If the student fails to occupy the room by 5:00 p.m. on the first day of classes, the university reserves the right to reassign the space or initiate an UMW Agreement cancellation. If the student fails to occupy the room, or removes all of his/her belongings during the course of the semester, the assignment will be considered abandoned and may be reassigned to another student. However, failure to occupy an assigned space or abandoning a room does not automatically release the student from obligation to the terms and conditions of the UMW Agreement. No storage for personal belongings is available outside of the individual student room. Students are not required to remove their belongings during the period between the Fall and Spring semesters unless a student is granted an end of fall semester room change. If a student is granted such a room change, she/he is required to move his/her belongings to the new assignment before leaving campus or to take belongings home over break. Occupancy of the room must be relinquished at the completion of the UMW Agreement. University housing facilities with the exception of University Apartments and Eagle Landing are closed during the periods between semesters, the Thanksgiving holiday and spring break. Entry is prohibited when buildings are closed. Limited housing options are available in traditional housing during the Thanksgiving holiday, the period between semesters and Spring Breaks at a rate of $30 per night, which is automatically charged to the student’s account following the break period. Students with extenuating circumstances may apply for consideration of having the break housing fee waived in writing to the Director of Residence Life and Commuter Student Services or his/her designee. All students in traditional residence halls wishing to remain on campus during these periods must apply to remain through the Office of Residence Life and Commuter Student Services by the posted application deadline in order to receive card access. Residents who are not graduating are required to check out of their residence hall within 24 hours after their last exam, or by the published residence hall closing date, whichever comes first. Housing is available during summer school and is contracted separately. <strong>Important Exception:</strong> For incoming first year students this UMW Agreement is for 4 terms of 103 days each to include the fall and spring semesters of two consecutive academic years.</li>
 	<li><strong>Refund Schedule</strong>: After five business days of receipt in the Office of Residence Life and Commuter Student Services this UMW Agreement will be binding for the entire period of the UMW Agreement as outlined above. Students who have signed this UMW Agreement will owe and be charged full room rent and appropriate dining charges. <strong>Note</strong>: Any charges in collecting a delinquent account are the responsibility of the student and can be added to the student’s account at any time. This applies but is not limited to charges for the use of an attorney or a collection agency.
<ol>
 	<li>Any termination of the UMW Agreement, subject to the terms and conditions in Section 5, 6, and 7, may qualify the resident for a refund or adjustment of room rent owed. <strong>Important note: </strong>For incoming first year students rates are subject to change between the first and second year of the UMW Agreement.
<ol>
 	<li>If written notification is received in MyUMW prior to the official semester opening the student is entitled to a refund of the entire room and board rates.</li>
 	<li>If written notification is received in MyUMW after the official semester opening the student will be charged pro rata as of the date of receipt of the intent to vacate form.</li>
</ol>
</li>
</ol>
</li>
 	<li><strong>Cancellation of the UMW Agreement Prior to the Period of Occupancy</strong>
<ol>
 	<li>For first-year or transfer students:
<ol>
 	<li>When written notification of the student’s desire to cancel enrollment is received by the Office of Admissions before May 15, 2016, the UMW Agreement will be cancelled and the housing deposit returned.  After May 15, 2016, students who cancel enrollment or fail to show up at check-in will have the UMW Agreement cancelled and the housing deposit forfeited.</li>
 	<li>The university reserves the right to void the UMW Agreement prior to the official semester opening, in which case the university will refund any prepaid rent and meals.</li>
</ol>
</li>
 	<li>For returning students:
<ol>
 	<li>If written notification of the student’s desire to cancel is received on or before five business days after receipt of the UMW Agreement in the Office of Residence Life and Commuter Student Services, the UMW Agreement will be cancelled.</li>
 	<li>If written notification of the student’s desire to cancel the UMW Agreement is received after five business days following the receipt of the UMW Agreement in the Office of Residence Life and Commuter Student Services:
<ol>
 	<li>The student who signs the UMW Agreement will be held responsible for fulfilling the UMW Agreement, except for circumstances which are deemed exceptional and unforeseeable, as determined by the Director of Residence Life and Commuter Student Services or his/her designee. If a cancellation request is approved for such circumstances, a student will forfeit their housing deposit of $250, and a student is eligible for an adjustment as outlined in Section 5.</li>
 	<li>The student who signs the UMW Agreement for the following academic year and does not return to the university in the fall for any reason, including withdrawal or transfer, will forfeit their housing deposit of $250, and will be released from the UMW Agreement and will be eligible for an adjustment as outlined in Section 5.</li>
</ol>
</li>
</ol>
</li>
</ol>
</li>
</ol>
<ul>
 	<li>Failure by the student to participate in the spring room selection process does not release the student from the UMW Agreement obligation.</li>
</ul>
<ol>
 	<li>The university reserves the right to void the UMW Agreement prior to the official semester opening, in which case the university will refund any prepaid room rent and meals.</li>
</ol>
<ol>
 	<li><strong>Cancellation of the UMW Agreement During the Academic Year:</strong>
<ol>
 	<li>By the resident student:
<ol>
 	<li>A student who fails to occupy an assigned room will remain obligated by the terms and conditions of the UMW Agreement.</li>
 	<li>A resident student may initiate cancellation of the UMW Agreement because of withdrawal from the university. The UMW Agreement will be terminated after the student has officially withdrawn from the university with the appropriate written notification. A pro rata refund of dining charges will be made. A refund of room rent is available as outlined in Section 5, when the room is vacated and the student has properly checked out with residence life staff.</li>
</ol>
</li>
</ol>
</li>
</ol>
<ul>
 	<li>If the student withdraws from the university and re-enrolls during the same academic year, the Office of Residence Life and Commuter Student Services reserves the right to reinstate the UMW Agreement from the date of re-enrollment for the remainder of the academic year.</li>
</ul>
<ol>
 	<li>A student who withdraws from the university prior to the end of the fall semester will not be subject to spring room rent charges as long as, by December 1<sup>st</sup>, he or she officially withdraws from the university and notifies the Office of Residence Life and Commuter Student Services and subsequently completes the residence hall check out procedures by the last day of the fall semester.</li>
 	<li>If the student leaves the university at the end of the fall semester after having completed requirements for graduation, the UMW Agreement will be terminated and the student will not be subject to spring room rent charges.</li>
 	<li>If the student is authorized to leave the campus to participate in one of the university’s programs offered at a remote location, but the student has not completed graduation requirements, the housing rent will be suspended for the duration of the off-campus program and then reinstated for the remainder of the academic year.</li>
</ol>
<ul>
 	<li>If the student provides the Office of Residence Life and Commuter Student Services with written documentation of a legal marriage, the student shall be entitled to a refund of the room rent, as outlined in Section 4, when the room is vacated and the student has properly checked out with residence life staff.</li>
 	<li>If the student provides the Office of Residence Life and Commuter Student Services with written documentation of a financial hardship that is verified as a significant, uncontrollable, and unforeseen change in the financial status of a student’s family or background that occurred since the UMW Agreement was submitted.</li>
</ul>
<ol>
 	<li>Any student making a request to cancel a UMW Agreement during the academic year must provide appropriate written notification to the Office of Residence Life and Commuter Student Services. Consideration for UMW Agreement termination for reasons not listed above will be given only in cases that are deemed exceptional and unforeseeable, as determined by the director of residence life and commuter student services or her designee. If an UMW Agreement termination is approved, the student will receive a refund as outlined in Section 5.</li>
</ol>
<ol>
 	<li>By the university:
<ol>
 	<li>If removal of the student from the residence hall occurs as a result of university disciplinary action or administrative withdrawal, the student will receive a pro rata refund of all dining fees. The student will not receive a refund of room rent.</li>
 	<li>The university reserves the right to terminate the UMW Agreement if the student fails to meet the university’s academic requirements, in which case the student will receive a pro rata refund of all dining fees. A refund of room rent is available as outlined in Section 5, when the room is vacated and the student has properly checked out with residence life staff.</li>
</ol>
</li>
</ol>
<ul>
 	<li>The university reserves the right to terminate the UMW Agreement if the student fails to maintain full-time registration for the period of the UMW Agreement. Termination of the UMW Agreement is at the discretion of the director of residence life and commuter student services or her/his designee. If the UMW Agreement is terminated the student will receive pro rata refund of all dining fees. A refund of room rent is available as outlined in Section 5, when the room is vacated and the student has properly checked out with residence life staff.</li>
</ul>
<ol>
 	<li><strong>Room Adjustments:</strong>
<ol>
 	<li>No adjustment in the charge for room rent will be made because of absence from the university for periods during the academic year except as outlined above.</li>
</ol>
</li>
</ol>
<h3>ADDITIONAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS:</h3>
<ol>
 	<li>General Information:
<ol>
 	<li>Each resident is required to abide by all university and residence hall policies, and with dining services policies. Policies are communicated through the UMW housing and dining services UMW Agreement, the Student Handbook, the Code of Conduct, and residence life staff. It is the student’s responsibility to be familiar with this information.</li>
 	<li>Breach of this UMW Agreement or violation of any University of Mary Washington policy may result in removal of the student from the residence hall with prior notice, except where the university determines that continued occupancy by the student may pose a danger to the life, safety or health of the student or other residents, in which case the resident may be removed without prior notice.</li>
 	<li>In the event that room and/or dining accommodations assigned to the student are destroyed or made unavailable to the university and the university does not furnish other accommodations, the UMW Agreement shall terminate. All rights and liabilities of the parties hereto shall cease and payments previously made by the student shall be refunded on a pro rata basis for the period for which accommodations were made unavailable to the student.</li>
 	<li>In the event that a residence hall room, section, or building is determined by the university to be uninhabitable, and the university does not furnish other accommodations, the UMW Agreement shall terminate. All rights and liabilities of the parties hereto shall cease and payments previously made by the student shall be refunded on a pro rata basis for the period for which accommodations were made unavailable to the student.</li>
 	<li>The rights and privileges under the UMW Agreement are personal and may be exercised only by the student. Not even the student may transfer or assign any of the UMW Agreement’s rights and privileges to another person without the university’s consent relay the rights and privileges to the student. The university reserves the right to make all assignments and to make any assignment changes considered necessary.</li>
 	<li>Execution of the UMW Agreement is not a commitment of admission to the University of Mary Washington. Only currently enrolled students are permitted to live in the residence halls.</li>
 	<li>Landline telephones are not provided in student rooms. For telecommunications services, please visit <a href="https://myresnet.com/">https://myresnet.com/</a></li>
</ol>
</li>
 	<li>Residence Life Information:
<ol>
 	<li>The university reserves the right to change room assignments at its discretion.</li>
 	<li>To accommodate occupancy overflow, the Office of Residence Life and Commuter Student Services may randomly assign students to a space. Examples include, but are not limited to adding a third bed to a double occupancy room and/or the use of other available spaces. When temporary assignments are used, the Office of Residence Life and Commuter Student Services will provide these residents with information regarding the reassignment process.</li>
 	<li>Students who withdraw from all classes and/or quit attending all classes during the academic year must vacate university housing and cease using university Dining Services immediately after the last date of attendance. Students who do not comply with this requirement will be held liable for room and dining charges beyond the last date of attendance and may be subject to university sanctions and/or legal proceedings.</li>
 	<li>Assigned residence hall rooms are to be used strictly as the student’s residence and for no other purpose. Residents may not use the residence hall, the assigned room or any equipment or facilities found in the hall or the room (i.e. Ethernet connection) for purposes of conducting a personal business or engaging in any illegal activity.</li>
 	<li>The Office of Residence Life and Commuter Student Services may amend or cancel a student’s UMW Agreement, if the university determines the student’s actions, general behavior or continued presence in the residence hall jeopardizes or is reasonably likely to jeopardize the health, safety or well-being of the student or any other resident. If the UMW Agreement is cancelled, notwithstanding any other provision(s) in this UMW Agreement, the student shall be entitled to a refund of appropriate fees as outlined in Section 5.</li>
 	<li>In order to ensure the safe and efficient operation of the university, or to protect its interests or the interests of its employees or students, the university reserves the right to alter or cancel any UMW Agreement if it determines that a resident’s behavior or criminal activity (regardless of when such behavior or criminal activity occurred) renders such an alteration or cancellation necessary. The university may decline to offer (or revoke an offer) on campus housing for the same reason. If the UMW Agreement is cancelled, notwithstanding any other provision(s) in this UMW Agreement, the student shall be entitled to a refund of appropriate fees as outlined in Section 5.</li>
 	<li>The university does not assume any legal obligation to pay for the loss of or damage to items of personal property of the student which occurs in its buildings or on its grounds, prior to, during or subsequent to the period of the UMW Agreement. Each student is encouraged to carry appropriate insurance to cover any such losses.</li>
 	<li>The student is responsible for the condition and proper care of the accommodations assigned to him or her and shall reimburse the university for all damages done within or to said accommodations during the term of the UMW Agreement. The student’s responsibility for damage includes, but is not limited to, damage to room furnishings and damage caused from either inside the room or outside the room to doors, windows and screens. The student is subject to pro rata charges for damage to public areas in the assigned residence hall, regardless of the identity of the person or persons responsible.</li>
 	<li>Alterations to the residence hall rooms, (including, but not limited to electrical wiring; attaching hardware to walls, ceiling or doors; constructing platform beds; or painting the room), are not authorized except in accordance with university policy, as issued by the Office of Residence Life and Commuter Student Services.</li>
 	<li>If one of the occupants of a room moves or a room is not fully occupied, the student(s) who remain agree(s) to accept an assigned roommate(s) or to move to another room upon request. The individual student is responsible for selecting a compatible roommate. If the student does not select a roommate within 48 hours of the space being vacated, the Office of Residence Life and Commuter Student Services will fill the vacancy either by consolidating assignment or assigning another student to the vacancy.</li>
 	<li>Residents, who misrepresent the truth, intimidate assigned or prospective occupants or otherwise attempt to manipulate the housing assignment process are subject to judicial action, an appropriate fee, reassignment, and/or UMW Agreement cancellation not withstanding any other provision(s) in this UMW Agreement, the student shall be entitled to a refund of appropriate fees as outlined in Section 5.</li>
 	<li>The University reserves the right to reassign, remove, or suspend (pending review) from the residence halls any student whose conduct exhibits disregard for the residential community, who violates the terms and conditions of residence hall occupancy, or who violates other University rules and regulations. The Dean of Student Life and/or designee will make such determinations.</li>
 	<li>Residents’ overnight guests and visitation is limited as outlined in the Student Handbook and Code of Conduct.</li>
 	<li>Assigned rooms may not be sublet, further assigned, or otherwise made available as a residence to anyone other than the individual designated by the university.</li>
 	<li>Students may change rooms only after first receiving official authorization from the Office of Residence Life and Commuter Student Services. Students who make an unauthorized room change may be required to return to their original assignment. Unauthorized room changes may result in an administrative charge or cancellation of the UMW Agreement not withstanding any other provision(s) in this UMW Agreement, the student shall be entitled to a refund of appropriate fees as outlined in Section 5.</li>
 	<li>Each resident is required to maintain his/her room in an acceptably safe and sanitary condition. The residence hall staff will periodically inspect the rooms to assess safety and sanitary conditions following a minimum of 48 hour notice.</li>
 	<li>The university reserves the right to enter a student’s room /suite/apartment to perform routine or emergency repairs or maintenance. In such cases it is the student’s responsibility to ensure access to the areas needing repair and to protect personal property against damage. The university also reserves the right to enter a student’s room/suite/apartment as deemed appropriate for reasons including, but not limited to health concerns, safety concerns and suspected violation of university or residence hall policies.</li>
 	<li>At the termination of the UMW Agreement period, or when moving to a new room assignment, a student must turn in her/his key(s) and have the condition of his/her room assessed by residence hall staff as part of the residence hall check out procedure. The student(s) who vacates his/her room without properly checking out will be billed the appropriate fee. In cases where damages are incurred beyond normal wear and tear, the student(s) will be charged for the expense involved in returning the room(s) to a usable condition.</li>
 	<li>Personal property will be considered abandoned if left in or near the residence halls after a student vacates his/her room. The university will not take responsibility for such items and will not be held by the university. Such items are subject to disposal or recycling as deemed appropriate.</li>
 	<li>The University reserves the right to reassign/consolidate residents of a community within Theme Housing when a community loses recognition or fails to fill its vacancies. It further reserves the right to reassign individuals who have not met the agreed upon conditions for Theme Housing Community or to re-appropriate space to accommodate new or existing communities. Theme housing communities are required to maintain an alternate list with Office of Residence Life and Commuter Student Services for filling vacancies over the summer and during the academic year.</li>
 	<li>Current students may choose mixed-sex apartment communities within Eagle Landing during the housing selection process.  A group of four current students consisting of two females and two males may choose to live together in one apartment (the females in one double room, and the males in the other double room).  Should any student depart their housing assignment, the remaining student group has 48 hours to find a replacement roommate to fill the vacancy; if a replacement is not found, the roommate of the departing student must move to another housing assignment to allow for the apartment to be coded as a single sex apartment for the duration of the academic year.</li>
</ol>
</li>
 	<li>Dining Services Information:
<ol>
 	<li>Under this UMW Agreement, Mary Washington University will offer lunch and dinner seven days per week, during advertised meal hours, in the University Center, and breakfast Monday through Friday, during advertised meal hours, in the University Center. The meals will be available beginning the dinner meal period before the first day of classes and ending with the last full meal period before each official closing of the residence halls. The UMW Agreement holder may avail himself/herself of these meals according to the terms and conditions of the dining plan options he/she selects hereunder. Should the University Center become inoperable, the UMW Agreement holder agrees to accept, at the university’s discretion, meals served at a temporary food service facility or a pro rata refund for missed meals. <strong>Important information: </strong>Residents of the University apartments and Eagle Landing are eligible for a reduced meal plan under this UMW Agreement. If any of these students move from a housing assignment with a reduced meal plan option (as listed above) to traditional housing they will be immediately provided with a 150 block meal plan and billed for same on a pro rata basis effective the date of the move. University dining facilities are closed during all break periods including the periods between semesters, Fall Break, the Thanksgiving Holiday, and Spring Break. Students moving from a traditional hall to an apartment style facility outside of the first two weeks of the semester must continue with their previously selected meal plan until the beginning of the next semester.</li>
 	<li>No adjustments in the charge for dining will be made for late entrances of 10 days or less or for absences of less than 14 days. Refunds will not be given for meals missed due to academic scheduling problems, trips taken by the resident for academic or extracurricular purposes, or for conflicts with the student’s academic or non-academic work schedules.</li>
 	<li>To be admitted to each meal available under this UMW Agreement, the student must present an operable university access card to the Dining Services cashier at the entrance to the dining facility. No refunds will be made for meals missed due to the student’s failure to present an operable university access card.</li>
 	<li>Dining services refunds or reduced rates cannot be made because of special dietary requirements. However, Dining Services staff will work with students to identify available food options to meet the student’s needs at no additional cost.</li>
 	<li>All resident students have the option of selecting a resident meal plan option, if no choice is made students are automatically placed on the least expensive resident meal plan option available for their residential assignment. All students have the option to change their meal plan selection (within resident plans offered). Meal plan changes must be requested within the first two weeks of the academic semester. After the second week of classes, changes to meal plans are no longer accepted.</li>
 	<li>Students changing from a less expensive plan to a more expensive plan option will be required to pay a prorated charge based on the date of the change.</li>
</ol>
</li>
</ol>
Errors that may occur in the posting or publication of the UMW Agreement will not change the intended terms and conditions of the UMW Agreement. Corrections of any such errors will be made in writing and provided to each UMW Agreement holder.

In consideration of the UMW Agreement to provide the student a space in the university residential facilities, and one of the offered dining meal plans, I hereby agree to comply with the provisions of this UMW Agreement and to pay in full for room and board in accordance with the billing instructions from Mary Washington University for the entire 2016-2017 academic year. The terms and conditions of this UMW Agreement cannot be altered without the consent of the university.

&nbsp;