---
ID: 341
post_title: 2017-2018
author: mesch
post_excerpt: ""
layout: page
permalink: >
  http://www.umw.edu/residencelife/before-you-get-to-campus/services-agreement/2017-2018/
published: true
post_date: 2017-01-30 12:31:56
---
<h2>2017-2018 University of Mary Washington Housing and Dining Services Agreement</h2>
<h3>Agreement to Deal Electronically</h3>
By choosing to electronically sign the University of Mary Washington (UMW) Housing and Dining Services Agreement, from here on referenced as UMW Agreement, below, you agree to the following terms and conditions:
<ul>
 	<li>Your access to the UMW Agreement is conducted electronically and you agree that the Office of Residence Life and Commuter Student Services may communicate with you electronically for all aspects of the terms of the UMW Agreement, including sending you electronic notices.</li>
 	<li>All electronic communications will be sent to your official UMW email account. At the end of this document you will be asked to provide an electronic signature. By doing so you will agree to the Terms and Conditions of the 2017-2018 UMW Agreement. <strong><u>Your electronic signature is legally binding</u></strong>.</li>
 	<li>You agree to contact the Office of Residence Life and Commuter Student Services if you need information about your UMW Agreement, and you recognize that electronic communication with that office may be interrupted by circumstances beyond that office’s control.</li>
 	<li>You agree to be responsible for keeping all records relating to the UMW Agreement and for printing or making an electronic copy of these Terms and Conditions. Except as prohibited by law, you waive any requirement of a different method of communication in connection with your access to and communications about the UMW Agreement.</li>
</ul>
UMW Agreement Terms and Conditions for Housing and Dining are combined in this document as a convenience for the residential student.
<h3>2017-2018 UMW Housing and Dining Services Agreement</h3>
TERMS AND CONDITIONS
<ol>
 	<li><strong>General Provisions: UMW reserves the right at any time to:</strong>
<ol>
 	<li>Alter, change, or cancel a housing assignment; designate any or all student housing as available for expanded occupancy; change any room assignment or rate; assign a roommate to any room;</li>
 	<li>Enter residences during reasonable hours and with or without advanced notice for routine maintenance, inspections, repairs, or housekeeping duties; enter any residences at any time of day or night for an emergency;</li>
 	<li>Control access or egress from the residence halls and/or floors in the event of an emergency, and;</li>
 	<li>Terminate or suspend this Agreement for violation of this Agreement or for violation of any relevant UMW policies as determined by UMW in its sole discretion.</li>
 	<li>No refund or cancellation of housing charges will be made to the Resident if the Resident is dismissed or suspended, has breached this Agreement, or has otherwise vacated the premises prior to the end of the contract period.</li>
</ol>
</li>
 	<li><strong>Period of Agreement</strong>:
<ol>
 	<li>This UMW Agreement, unless otherwise stated, is for the full academic year consisting of the fall and spring semesters of the same academic year. If student defers admission from the fall semester, UMW Agreement applies for spring semester only. If student is returning to the university in the spring semester after an absence, UMW Agreement applies for spring semester only. Thus, the student agrees that, he/she will live in the university residence halls and take meals in university dining facilities for the entire period of the UMW Agreement. Dining services under this UMW Agreement will be provided as indicated below. The procedures for students entering the university with a new UMW Agreement for the spring semester, beginning in January, is the same as outlined for the fall semester. <strong>Important Exception:</strong> For incoming first year students, this UMW Agreement is for two full academic years. If student begins first year in January this UMW Agreement is for three semesters. During the spring semester of their first year, students must submit an online UMW Agreement for the upcoming year so as to complete a roommate matching profile, receive an assignment and select a meal plan option.</li>
</ol>
</li>
 	<li><strong>Eligibility</strong>:
<ol>
 	<li>Students must be a degree seeking UMW student with at least nine 9 credit hours unless otherwise stated. Only current students are able to participate in the returning student housing selection process. Bachelor of Liberal Sciences (BLS) students are ineligible for campus housing unless the Director of Residence Life and Commuter Student Services or his/her designee has given special permission. Students who have less than 9 credit hours or who have completed a “Request for Reduced Course Load” from the Office of Academic Services and have received approval from the Director of Residence Life and Commuter Student Services or his/her designee, may be allowed to retain eligibility for residential housing. Non-students are not permitted to live in the residence halls. <strong>Important Information: </strong>A course load reduction below 9 credits does not automatically cancel the UMW Agreement.</li>
</ol>
</li>
 	<li><strong>Consideration of the UMW Agreement</strong>:
<ol>
 	<li>Issued UMW Agreements are binding on the university only after a student has been admitted to the university by the director of admissions.</li>
</ol>
</li>
 	<li><strong>Period of Occupancy</strong>:
<ol>
 	<li>This UMW Agreement is for two terms, the fall and spring semesters. The student may occupy an assigned room at the time specified by the university each semester. If the student fails to occupy the room by 5:00 p.m. on the first day of classes, the university reserves the right to reassign the space or initiate a UMW Agreement cancellation. If the student fails to occupy the room, or removes all of his/her belongings during the course of the semester, the assignment will be considered abandoned and may be reassigned to another student. However, failure to occupy an assigned space or abandoning a room does not release the student from obligation to the terms and conditions of the UMW Agreement. Occupancy of the room must be relinquished at the completion of the UMW Agreement. University housing facilities with the exception of University Apartments, Eagle Landing, Madison Hall, Framar, and South are closed during the periods between semesters. Entry is prohibited when buildings are closed. Residents who are not graduating are required to check out of their residence hall within 24 hours after their last exam, or by the published residence hall closing date, whichever comes first. Housing is available during summer school and is contracted separately.</li>
</ol>
</li>
 	<li><strong>Refund Schedule</strong>:
<ol>
 	<li>This UMW Agreement is binding for the entire period of the UMW Agreement as outlined above. Students who have signed this UMW Agreement will owe and be charged full room rent and appropriate dining charges. <strong>Note</strong>: Any charges in collecting a delinquent account are the responsibility of the student and can be added to the student’s account at any time. This applies to, but is not limited to, charges for the use of an attorney or a collection agency.</li>
 	<li>Any termination of the UMW Agreement, subject to the terms and conditions, may qualify the resident for a refund or adjustment of room rent owed. <strong>Important note: </strong>For incoming first year students rates are subject to change between the first and second year of the UMW Agreement.
<ol>
 	<li>If written request is received in MyUMW prior to July 15<sup>th</sup> and the student is released, the student is entitled to a refund of the entire room and board charges.</li>
 	<li>If written request is received in MyUMW after July 15<sup>th</sup> the student may be charged a portion or all of the agreement room and board charges.</li>
</ol>
</li>
</ol>
</li>
 	<li><strong>Cancellation of the UMW Agreement Prior to the Period of Occupancy</strong>
<ol>
 	<li>For first-year or transfer students:
<ol>
 	<li>When written notification of the student’s desire to cancel enrollment is received by the Office of Admissions before May 15, 2017, the UMW Agreement will be cancelled and the housing deposit returned.  After May 15, 2017, students who cancel enrollment or fail to show up at check-in will have the housing deposit forfeited. All students requesting a housing agreement release after May 15, 2017 must do so in writing to the UMW Residence Life and Commuter Student Services office through MyUMW</li>
 	<li>The university reserves the right to void the UMW Agreement prior to the official semester opening, in which case the university will refund any prepaid rent and meals.</li>
 	<li><strong>Beginning July 15<sup>th</sup>, students seeking to be released from their on-campus housing agreement must petition The Director of Residence Life or his or her designee. A release may be granted only to a student who can demonstrate through the written petition and supporting documentation that their situation is extraordinary and cannot be resolved in campus housing.  Petitions are considered on a case by case basis and release is not guaranteed</strong>.</li>
</ol>
</li>
 	<li>For returning students:
<ol>
 	<li>Returning students who have signed the housing agreement and received an assignment before April 1<sup>st</sup> (including but not limited to selecting a space in process, been pulled in by roommates, gone through the pre-process, or who are assigned a space at the end of the spring process) are locked into the assignment and will not be allowed to cancel.</li>
</ol>
</li>
 	<li>New student, transfers, and students returning to campus who receive a housing assignment after April 1<sup>st</sup> will be allowed to cancel their housing agreement if a written request is received within five business days after the assignment is made.</li>
 	<li>Failure by the student to participate in the spring room selection process does not release the student from the UMW Agreement obligation.  An assignment will be given to the student at the end of the selection process.</li>
</ol>
</li>
 	<li><strong>Cancellation of the UMW Agreement During the Academic Year:</strong>
<ol>
 	<li>Cancelation initiated by the resident student:
<ol>
 	<li>A student who fails to occupy an assigned room will remain obligated by the terms and conditions of the UMW Agreement.</li>
 	<li>Students wishing to request a cancellation of the housing agreement must put the request in writing on MyUMW.</li>
 	<li>Students who withdraw from the university and complete the appropriate paperwork with the Office of Residence Life and Commuter Student Services will be released from the obligations of the UMW Agreement. Students who withdraw from the university for any reason will receive a pro rata refund of dining charges and will receive a pro rata refund of room charges as outlined in section 6.  Student withdrawing in the fall will not be held responsible for the spring semester housing charge.  Students who withdraw from or leave the university must complete checkout procedures and vacate the residence hall within 48 hours of approval of the Intent to Vacate Form.  Student UMW housing agreements are managed by the Office of Residence Life and Commuter Student Services and no other office at UMW can release the student from his/her UMW Agreement.</li>
</ol>
</li>
 	<li>Students who are removed from the university for judicial reasons will forfeit all monies collected during the current billing cycle and may be held responsible for monies owed on any subsequent semesters remaining in the academic year.</li>
 	<li>If the student withdraws from the university and re-enrolls during the same academic year, the Office of Residence Life and Commuter Student Services reserves the right to reinstate the UMW Agreement from the date of re-enrollment for the remainder of the academic year.</li>
 	<li>If the student leaves the university at the end of the fall semester after having completed requirements for graduation, the UMW Agreement will be terminated and the student will not be subject to spring room rent charges.</li>
 	<li>If the student is authorized to leave the campus to participate in one of the university’s programs offered at a remote location, but the student has not completed graduation requirements, the housing rent will be suspended for the duration of the off-campus program and then reinstated for the remainder of the academic year.</li>
 	<li><strong>After the cancellation dates noted above, the Housing Agreement will be considered intact for the entire contract period and no cancellations will be allowed. This housing agreement may not be terminated by the resident for: financial aid need, desire to commute from home, medical reasons (other than as required by law), delay in receiving a housing assignment, lack of understanding that this housing agreement is binding, changing circumstances or opinions about housing, incompatibility with roommates, or involvement in an off campus lease.  </strong></li>
 	<li>A student who fails to move in or who moves out of housing during the semester while remaining a student will be obligated to pay in full for the agreement term. A resident who fails to meet eligibility requirements, but remains registered at UMW will be obligated to pay in full for the agreement term, unless the agreement is cancelled by the Office of Residence Life and Student Commuter Services.</li>
 	<li>Any student making a request to cancel a UMW Agreement during the academic year must provide appropriate written notification to the Office of Residence Life and Commuter Student Services. Consideration for UMW Agreement termination for reasons not listed above will be given only in cases that are deemed exceptional and unforeseen, as determined by the director of residence life and commuter student services or her designee. A request to cancel the agreement is not a guarantee of release from the agreement. If a student is denied the release, they will be obligated for the remainder of the agreement term. If a UMW Agreement termination is approved, the student will receive a refund as outlined in Section 6</li>
 	<li>Cancelation initiated by the university:
<ol>
 	<li>If removal of the student from the residence hall occurs as a result of university administrative withdrawal, the student will receive a pro rata refund of all dining fees. The student may not receive a refund of room rent.</li>
 	<li>The university reserves the right to terminate the UMW Agreement if the student fails to meet the university’s academic requirements, in which case the student will receive a pro rata refund of all dining fees. A refund of room rent is available as outlined in Section 6, when the room is vacated and the student has properly checked out with residence life staff.</li>
</ol>
</li>
</ol>
</li>
 	<li><strong>Room Adjustments:</strong>
<ol>
 	<li>No adjustment in the charge for room rent will be made because of absence from the university for periods during the academic year except as outlined above.</li>
</ol>
</li>
 	<li><strong>Break Housing:</strong>
<ol>
 	<li>The university is not responsible for providing housing to any student residing in a hall that closes during the break periods.  Students wishing to live on campus and stay during the break periods should apply to live in a residence hall that remains open.</li>
 	<li>All halls except Eagle Landing, the UMW Apartments, Framar, South, and Madison close during all break periods.  Students residing in Eagle Landing, the UMW Apartments, Framar, South, and Madison are allowed to remain in housing during the break periods.</li>
</ol>
</li>
</ol>
<h3>Additional Terms and Conditions:</h3>
<ol>
 	<li>General Information:
<ol>
 	<li>Each resident is required to abide by all university and residence hall policies, and with dining services policies. Policies are communicated through the UMW housing and dining services Agreement, the Student Handbook, the Code of Conduct, and residence life staff. It is the student’s responsibility to be familiar with this information.</li>
 	<li>Breach of this UMW Agreement or violation of any University of Mary Washington policy may result in removal of the student from the residence hall with prior notice, except where the university determines that continued occupancy by the student may pose a danger to the life, safety or health of the student or other residents, in which case the resident may be removed without prior notice.</li>
 	<li>The rights and privileges under the UMW Agreement are personal and may be exercised only by the student. The student may not transfer or assign any of the UMW Agreement’s rights and privileges to another person without the university’s consent. The university reserves the right to make all assignments and to make any assignment changes considered necessary.</li>
</ol>
</li>
 	<li>Residence Life Information
<ol>
 	<li>Students who withdraw from all classes during the academic year must vacate university housing and cease using university Dining Services immediately after the last date of attendance. Students who do not comply with this requirement will be held liable for room and dining charges beyond the last date of attendance and may be subject to university sanctions and/or legal proceedings.</li>
 	<li>Assigned residence hall rooms are to be used strictly as the student’s residence and for no other purpose. Residents may not use the residence hall, the assigned room or any equipment or facilities found in the hall or the room (i.e. Ethernet connection) for purposes of conducting a personal business or engaging in any illegal activity.</li>
 	<li>The Office of Residence Life and Commuter Student Services may amend or cancel a student’s UMW Agreement, if the university determines the student’s actions, general behavior or continued presence in the residence hall jeopardizes or is reasonably likely to jeopardize the health, safety or well-being of the student or any other resident. If the UMW Agreement is cancelled, notwithstanding any other provision(s) in this UMW Agreement, the student shall be entitled to a refund of appropriate fees as outlined in Section 5.</li>
 	<li>In order to ensure the safe and efficient operation of the university, or to protect its interests or the interests of its employees or students, the university reserves the right to alter or cancel any UMW Agreement if it determines that a resident’s behavior or criminal activity (regardless of when or where such behavior or criminal activity occurred) renders such an alteration or cancellation necessary. The university may decline to offer (or revoke an offer) on campus housing for the same reason. If the UMW Agreement is cancelled, notwithstanding any other provision(s) in this UMW Agreement, the student shall be entitled to a refund of appropriate fees as outlined in Section 5.</li>
 	<li>The university does not assume any legal obligation to pay for the loss of or damage to items of personal property of the student which occurs in its buildings or on its grounds, prior to, during or subsequent to the period of the UMW Agreement. Each student is encouraged to carry appropriate insurance to cover any such losses.</li>
 	<li>The student is responsible for the condition and proper care of the accommodations assigned to him or her and shall reimburse the university for all damages done within or to said accommodations during the term of the UMW Agreement. The student’s responsibility for damage includes, but is not limited to, damage to room furnishings and damage caused from either inside the room or outside the room to doors, windows and screens. The student is subject to pro rata charges for damage to public areas in the assigned residence hall, regardless of the identity of the person or persons responsible.</li>
 	<li>Alterations to the residence hall rooms, (including, but not limited to electrical wiring; attaching hardware to walls, ceiling or doors; constructing platform beds; or painting the room), are not authorized except in accordance with university policy, as issued by the Office of Residence Life and Commuter Student Services.</li>
 	<li>If one of the occupants of a room moves or a room is not fully occupied, the student(s) who remain agree(s) to accept an assigned roommate(s) or to move to another room upon request. The individual student is responsible for selecting a compatible roommate. If the student does not select a roommate within 48 hours of the space being vacated, the Office of Residence Life and Commuter Student Services will fill the vacancy either by consolidating assignment or assigning another student to the vacancy.</li>
 	<li>Residents, who misrepresent the truth, intimidate assigned or prospective occupants or otherwise attempt to manipulate the housing assignment process are subject to judicial action, an appropriate fee, reassignment, and/or UMW Agreement cancellation not withstanding any other provision(s) in this UMW Agreement, the student shall be entitled to a refund of appropriate fees as outlined in Section 5.</li>
 	<li>The University reserves the right to reassign, remove, or suspend (pending review) from the residence halls any student whose conduct exhibits disregard for the residential community, who violates the terms and conditions of residence hall occupancy, or who violates other University rules and regulations. The Dean of Student Life and/or designee will make such determinations.</li>
 	<li>Residents’ overnight guests and visitation is limited as outlined in the Student Handbook and Code of Conduct.</li>
 	<li>Assigned rooms may not be sublet, further assigned, or otherwise made available as a residence to anyone other than the individual designated by the university.</li>
 	<li>Students may change rooms only after first receiving official authorization from the Office of Residence Life and Commuter Student Services. Students who make an unauthorized room change may be required to return to their original assignment. Unauthorized room changes may result in an administrative charge or cancellation of the UMW Agreement not withstanding any other provision(s) in this UMW Agreement, the student shall be entitled to a refund of appropriate fees as outlined in Section 5.</li>
 	<li>Each resident is required to maintain his/her room in an acceptably safe and sanitary condition. The residence hall staff will periodically inspect the rooms to assess safety and sanitary conditions following a minimum of 48 hour notice.</li>
 	<li>The university reserves the right to enter a student’s room /suite/apartment to perform routine or emergency repairs or maintenance. In such cases it is the student’s responsibility to ensure access to the areas needing repair and to protect personal property against damage. The university also reserves the right to enter a student’s room/suite/apartment as deemed appropriate for reasons including, but not limited to health concerns, safety concerns and suspected violation of university or residence hall policies.</li>
 	<li>At the termination of the UMW Agreement period, or when moving to a new room assignment, a student must turn in her/his key(s) and have the condition of his/her room assessed by residence hall staff as part of the residence hall check out procedure. The student(s) who vacates his/her room without properly checking out will be billed the appropriate fee. In cases where damages are incurred beyond normal wear and tear, the student(s) will be charged for the expense involved in returning the room(s) to a usable condition.</li>
 	<li>Personal property will be considered abandoned if left in or near the residence halls after a student vacates his/her room. The university will not take responsibility for such items and will not be held by the university. Such items are subject to disposal or recycling as deemed appropriate</li>
 	<li>The University reserves the right to reassign/consolidate residents of a community within Theme Housing when a community loses recognition or fails to fill its vacancies. It further reserves the right to reassign individuals who have not met the agreed upon conditions for Theme Housing Community or to re-appropriate space to accommodate new or existing communities. Theme housing communities are required to maintain an alternate list with Office of Residence Life and Commuter Student Services for filling vacancies over the summer and during the academic year.</li>
 	<li>Current students may choose flexible housing arrangements within all halls with the exception of Ball Hall and all first year halls.  Should any student depart their housing assignment, the remaining student group has 48 hours to find a replacement roommate to fill the vacancy; if a replacement is not found, the university can relocate any of the students necessary in order to make the room a single sex room. All students in a suite or apartment must be participants in the Flexible Housing program.</li>
</ol>
</li>
 	<li><strong>Dining Services Information:</strong>
<ol>
 	<li>Under this UMW Agreement, University of Mary Washington Dining Services will offer lunch and dinner seven days per week, during advertised meal hours, in the University Center, and breakfast Monday through Friday, during advertised meal hours, in the University Center. The meals will be available beginning the dinner meal period before the first day of classes and ending with the last full meal period before each official closing of the residence halls. The UMW Agreement holder may avail himself/herself of these meals according to the terms and conditions of the dining plan options he/she selects hereunder. Should the University Center become inoperable, the UMW Agreement holder agrees to accept, at the university’s discretion, meals served at a temporary food service facility or a pro rata refund for missed meals. <strong>Important information: </strong>Residents of the University Apartments and Eagle Landing are eligible for a reduced meal plan under this UMW Agreement. If any of these students move from a housing assignment with a reduced meal plan option (as listed above) to traditional housing they will be immediately provided with a 150 block meal plan and billed for same on a pro rata basis effective the date of the move. University dining facilities are closed during all break periods including the periods between semesters, Fall Break, the Thanksgiving Holiday, and Spring Break. Students moving from a traditional hall to an apartment style facility outside of the first two weeks of the semester must continue with their previously selected meal plan until the beginning of the next semester. Senior students (over 90 credit hours) who reside on campus may opt to select two additional commuter student plans regardless of where they reside on campus.</li>
 	<li>No adjustments in the charge for dining will be made for late entrances of 10 days or less or for absences of less than 14 days. Refunds will not be given for meals missed due to academic scheduling problems, trips taken by the resident for academic or extracurricular purposes, or for conflicts with the student’s academic or non-academic work schedules.</li>
 	<li>To be admitted to each meal available under this UMW Agreement, the student must present an operable university access card to the Dining Services cashier at the entrance to the dining facility. No refunds will be made for meals missed due to the student’s failure to present an operable university access card.</li>
 	<li>Dining services refunds or reduced rates cannot be made because of special dietary requirements. However, Dining Services staff will work with students to identify available food options to meet the student’s needs at no additional cost. Dining plans can not be reduced or waived for individuals who follow specific personal diet plans, such as vegetarian or vegan diets.</li>
 	<li>All resident students have the option of selecting a resident meal plan option, if no choice is made students are automatically placed on the least expensive resident meal plan option available for their residential assignment. All students have the option to change their meal plan selection (within resident plans offered). Meal plan changes must be requested within the first two weeks of the academic semester. After the second week of classes, changes to meal plans are no longer accepted.</li>
 	<li>Students changing from a less expensive plan to a more expensive plan option will be required to pay a prorated charge based on the date of the change.</li>
</ol>
</li>
</ol>
<strong>In consideration of the UMW Agreement to provide the student a space in the university residential facilities, and one of the offered dining meal plans, I hereby agree to comply with the provisions of this UMW Agreement and to pay in full for room and board in accordance with the billing instructions from Mary Washington University for the entire 2017-2018 academic year. The terms and conditions of this UMW Agreement cannot be altered without the consent of the university.</strong>