---
ID: 215
post_title: Changes to Housing Assignments
author: mesch
post_excerpt: ""
layout: page
permalink: >
  http://www.umw.edu/residencelife/on-campus/housing-procedures/changes/
published: true
post_date: 2016-02-07 13:30:27
---
Have you checked out our pages on <a href="http://www.umw.edu/residencelife/on-campus/life-in-the-halls/roommate/">Living with a Roommate</a> and <a href="http://www.umw.edu/residencelife/on-campus/life-in-the-halls/roommate/conflict/">Resolving Roommate Conflicts</a>, but still want to consider a room change?  If not, we encourage you to read through those sections.  If so, the information below will give you walk you through our Room Change procedures.
<h2>Frequently Asked Questions</h2>
<h3>When can changes to housing assignments take place?</h3>
<em>Answer:</em>  In the fall semester, this can take place from the second week of the semester to the middle of November. In the spring, housing assignment changes can take place the second week of the semester through the first week of April.
<h3>Are changes to housing assignments guaranteed?</h3>
<em>Answer: </em> No, a change to a housing assignment is not guaranteed.  It is important for students to make wise decisions when selecting housing assignments and when selecting other students to live with.  Only if a change is approved through the Residence Life process may a student move.  The move is contingent on availability of another space, which cannot be guaranteed.
<h3>What is the process for changes to a housing assignment?</h3>
<em>Answer:</em>  Students must begin by talking with a Resident Assistant assigned to their building or complex, who will gather information and provide advice on how to proceed.  In most cases, an educational conversation or mediation between roommates will be necessary.  The Resident Assistant will consult with the<a href="http://www.umw.edu/residencelife/contact/staff/"> supervisor in charge</a> of the building or complex.  It is the policy of the Office of Residence Life to work with students on gaining the skills to handle difficult situations by empowering students to make wise decisions and communicate effectively.  Continuing the educational process outside of the classroom in the residence halls with roommates is an important life lesson requiring effort and focus by the students involved to compromise and come to a suitable solution.  If the situation becomes difficult, the RA may continue communication with his/her supervisor, who may become involved.  As a last resort, the complex supervisor may eventually approve a housing reassignment based on the circumstances presented.  If the supervisor approves the housing assignment relocation, he/she will work with the student by offering available spaces.
<h3>A housing assignment change has been approved – now what?</h3>
<em>Answer:</em>  Approval to change a housing assignment must be given by a supervisor before the student proceeds with the move process.  The student will receive a list of available spaces from the supervisor.  Spaces are limited.  It is the student’s responsibility to reach out to students in the available spaces to discuss compatibility and to set up a time to view the space.  Once the student has selected a space to move, he/she must communicate the decision with the supervisor.  Next, the student will receive an email with details regarding the move. The student will need to remove all belongings from and clean their current room, then turn in their old key and pick up a key to their new residence at the Eagle Landing front desk. The Resident Assistant for the new housing assignment will meet with the roommates to discuss their Roommate Agreement and ensure there is focus on building a productive living environment in the new space.
<h3>I have a vacancy in my room.  What do I need to do?</h3>
<em>Answer:</em>  During the academic year, if a vacancy occurs in a student’s housing assignment for any reason, the remaining student has the responsibility to immediately contact the Assistant Director of Residence Life if he/she would like to indicate a preferred roommate, provided it is during a designated housing assignment change period. If the requested student does not move into the space, it becomes available to any student approved to move.  All residents with an open space must accept a new occupant as assigned by the Office of Residence Life.  Students approved to relocate will have the opportunity to contact students with a vacancy to meet with them before choosing a new space.  While the Office of Residence Life attempts to give residents notice of a new roommate, emergencies take place that do not always permit timely communication. It is imperative students with vacancies keep the space clean and available at all times, which means keeping the unused side of the room clear of all belongings, the beds separated, and the furniture placed correctly around the room.  Behavior which discriminates against or impedes an interested student or assigned occupant from selecting the available space will be considered sufficient grounds for disciplinary action, including reassignment or removal from the residence halls, without refund, as determined by the Assistant Dean of Residence Life and Housing or his/her designee.
<h3>What if I move without the approval of the Office of Residence Life?</h3>
<em>Answer:</em>  All students involved in an unauthorized room change will be subject to disciplinary action and fines.